# Time series clustering based on normal cloud model and complex network

Abstract
As a result of the widespread existence of time series in various fields, time-series data mining has been studied by many researchers. When data mining researchs are conducted, it’s difficult to obtain precise domain knowledge to set similarity threshold. What’s more, the datasets in reality inevitably have noise and missing values, which is a challenge for traditional time-series clustering algorithms. Normal cloud model is a model of uncertainty transformation between a qualitative concept and its quantitative representation. Similarity threshold can be set adaptively by using normal cloud model. A time-series clustering method based on normal cloud model and complex network is proposed, where the similarity can be caculated through matrix profile algorithm. Matrix profile similarity measurement, construction of normal cloud model and filter, cloud model expectation curve weight, degree centrality reweight and community discovery in complex network are five stages of the proposed clustering algorithm. There are some advantages of the proposed algorithm. First, the number of clusters is unnecessary to specify. Second, local shape features of time series are considered in the algorithm. Third, similarity threshold can be set adaptively through normal cloud model. Fourth, the real network can be reflected better by using node centrality. Finally, the impact of missing values and noise can be reduced through matrix profile algorithm. Experiments are carried out on 94 datasets and compared with 8 clustering methods in the UCR time-series clustering benchmark.
Experimental results indicate the proposed method can improve clustering accuracy for time-series datasets.

Keywords: Time Series Clustering; Matrix Profile; Nomal Cloud Model; Complex Network; Community Discover Algorithm